[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Either iteratively or
recursively this problem can be solved.
Finally, let's try to solve it,
with map and reduce, okay?
So, with map and reduce what we can
observe is that the calculation,
or the changing of a value to a function
is a transformation, is it not?
So I can take arr, and
simply call map with foo as my function.
That's going to make sure to wrap
all of my values into function.
And now, I want to perform
a composition of all those functions.
Does everybody see that?
How do I do a composition?
>> Speaker 2: Reduce.
>> Kyle Simpson: Right,
what does reduce take?
What's it's first parameter.
It's first argument.
>> Speaker 3: An array?
>> Kyle Simpson: It takes a predicate
function because remember it's
operating on the array prototype method.
So we don't have to pass the array in.
Its going to get that context already.
So, the first argument to the dot reduce
is going to be the predicate function.
The function that is going to do the work.
So we'll define that function.
We know that functions
going to get two arguments.
I'm just going to temporarily call them
X and Y, but we're going to rename the.
So, let's do our function there.
And then what else does it get?
It gets an initial value.
What initial value should we use here?
Well, there's a couple of different
ways to think about this.
We are doing a map across the entire list,
right?
So, that's one way of doing it.
But, the other way of
doing it is to slice off.
>> Kyle Simpson: Let me just double check
and make sure I'm not, I'm trying to keep
close to, my brain works differently
when I solve this dilemma.
I'm trying to make sure to not get
too off track of your solution file.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
So, we could do slice(1)
because we want to only
perform the reduce transformation
across the second half of the list.
We have the first item, and
we want to deal with the first item.
And then, whatever happened, we're
going to reduce across the second list.
So, if we did it that way,
what's our good initial value?
>> Speaker 2: Array zero.
>> Kyle Simpson: Arr[0].
You see how I did that?
I took the first element to the list and
made it my initial value, and
did a reduction against
the rest of the list.
That's just the shortest way of doing it.
That may not always be
the way you want to do it.
You might have just started it out
with a good initial value like
a function that returns zero.
So, you could have said foo zero here.
Okay.
But now we want to ask,
what is our accumulation?
And, the typical names for
these, as I said,
the typical names in the reduce predicate
are accumulator ACC and current.
That's how most people will call them.
I don't love accumulator and current so
I'm going to actually use previous and
current.
Because I think previous is a little
easier to understand than accumulator.
But, let's analyze what is going
to happen with this first call.
With this very first call what's
going to happen is that I'm going to,
let's just for simplicity sake go ahead
and pass in these as functions, so
that I'm not having to do that map there.
Of course we know we could do the map.
Let's just for
simplicity's sake pass those in.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay,
so array of 0 is what?
>> Speaker 2: 10,4,10.
Or a function now.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's a function, right?
And, curr is going to be array in the one
position which is also a function, right?
So, I have two functions.
How am I going to compose
these two functions together?
I'm going to create a new function.
That's one of the most common ways
that we compose functions is to wrap
the two of them into one bigger function.
I'm going to take create a new
function and I'm returning it,
which is then going to make
it be the next previous.
So, what is this function going to do?
It's going to actually call add2,
with previous and cur.
So, we're not calculating that sum now.
We're just making a bigger and
bigger wrapped function.
The end result of our reduction here,
is not to have a sum.
It's to have one giant function
that when we call that function,
it's going to calculate all
those intermediate sums and
put them all together,
making a bigger and bigger function.
The first time, we make one function and
we replace the first two elements in
our array with one function that's set
when it's called, it will calculate
the sum of those two functions.
The second iteration of our reduction,
we take that
composed function plus the function in
a list, we compose those two together.
The third iteration we
take a bigger composed and
the third item in the list and
we compose those.
Until we get to the very end,
we have one giant function.
So, if I just simply said return arr dot
slice, we would not have what we want
here in the sense that we would
not have calculated the sum yet.
We simply would have produced a function.
So, what do we do?
We then call that function.
And, that will call it, and
call it, and call it, and
call it however down it needs to go until
we end up with our actual sum result.
Yes.
>> Speaker 4: A couple of questions here.
Is it possible to leave off
the initial value and reduce?
>> Kyle Simpson: If you
leave off the initial value
it's a little more complicated.
It will default to undefined,
which might be an okay initial value
depending upon what you're doing,
that might be an okay initial value.
But, you should also be aware that if
you leave off the initial value and
your list has one or
fewer items Items that throws an error.
So, it's not really ever a good idea
to leave off the initial value.
You almost always want to give
it some useful initial value.
>> Speaker 4: He's wondering if
you maybe can explain again,
removing the first value.
And why are we doing the original slice,
I guess?
>> Kyle Simpson: The reason
we do the slice(1) here
is because what we want is to perform
a reduction where we have two items.
And, we could have not
done a slice at all.
And then, we could have had
an initial value here of foo(0).
If I did foo(0),
does everybody see that that would've
been a suitable initial value?
It would've been a function that
when called, just simply returns 0.
Which is going to have a no-op.
So, I could have done
my solution like that.
>> Kyle Simpson: Operator reduction across
the entire list where my initial value is
simply a basically a no-op function.
That's one way of doing it.
>> Speaker 3: Why is
the other one preferable?
>> Kyle Simpson: One less
function call wrapping layer.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, all I was trying to
do, I've already shown you starting out
with an initial value, here I'm saying
actually we already know that array of
zero is a suitable initial value, which
is why we put array of zero there and
we do the reduction across
the rest of the list.
Either way is entirely valid.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's
important to keep track.
I know that we're, that you kind
of get into this nesting thing and
it's hard to keep track
of the reduce predicate.
That's this one right here.
It returns a function.
So every time we pass in two functions,
we get a third function out that's
a composition of those two functions.
And then, when we have another
function and another function, and
this one is already a composition,
we get a super composition of a composed
function with a regular function.
And then, over here on the fourth item we
get a super super composed function with
a regular function.
And, we've just made functions
wrapping together up the list.
So, if we were to unroll all of that, if
you were to try and print out this thing,
and we passed down a list of four items,
we'd have four levels of function call.
This function returns this function call,
returns this function call,
returns the add2 of two values.
And, it would just simply call all
those functions and unwrap them.
So, this isn't recursive.
This is simply unrolling
recursion into a call stack
as many levels deep as you need.
And, just as a little side trivia note,
has anyone ever heard of the Y Combinator?
The Y Combinator is a general pattern for
doing exactly that.
I don't fully understand it, but I know
that the Y Combinator takes recursion and
unrolls it to a progressively
wrapped function loop.
So, we could have solve our
problem exactly like we did here.
We could have solved it with the Y
Combinator and got the exact same result.
We would have the exact same set of
functions wrapped in other functions,
wrapped in other functions.
That's how Y Combinator
gets around recursion, or
gets around the problem with recursion
is allocating all that new stack depth.
The Y combinator gets around it
by doing fixed proper tail call
function calls inside of function calls,
inside of function calls.
>> Kyle Simpson: So, we make sure to call
that function, and we're going to end up.
So, let's just double check this,
this is my EX4.js.
I'm going to, actually let me
just copy it in the console.
You can run it in your browser
using the html file if you'd like.
I'm just going to run it in the browser,
make sure I didn't miss anything.
I forgot to point out there was
supposed to be passing in an array.
By the way, ES6, how do I get it
back to where I do want to pass them in as
individual ones instead of as an array?
Could have just done the ...,
that's all I needed to do there.
So, if you want to have a call signature
where you don't pass in an array,
just declare your call signature
as basically gathering
together all arguments into an array for
you.
All right, let's try it again,
see if I didn't mess something up.
And there we get the 181.